This repository shows a solution to the [Riddler Classic of June 10, 2022](https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/can-you-catch-the-grasshopper/). The problem reads as follows:

"You are trying to catch a grasshopper on a balance beam that is 1 meter long. Every time you try to catch it, it jumps to a random point along the interval between 20 centimeters left of its current position and 20 centimeters right of its current position.

"If the grasshopper is within 20 centimeters of one of the edges, it will not jump off the edge. For example, if it is 10 centimeters from the left edge of the beam, then it will randomly jump to anywhere within 30 centimeters of that edge with equal probability (meaning it will be twice as likely to jump right as it is to jump left).

"After many, many failed attempts to catch the grasshopper, where is it most likely to be on the beam? Where is it least likely? And what is the ratio between these respective probabilities?"

The exact solution can be found using detailed balance. This states that in the equilibrium steady state, the transition rate between any two points is equal. This leads to a solution of:

$$p(x)= \left\{
\begin{array}{ll}
      5/9 + 25/9x &  x \leq 0.2 \text{m}\\
      10/9 & 0.2 \text{m} < x < 0.8 \text{m} \\
      30/9 - 25/9x & x \geq 0.8 \text{m} \\
\end{array} 
\right.$$

The notebook `grasshopper.ipynb` has code to simulate the evolution of the grasshopper's probability density and shows it converges to this solution. The `.gif` and `.html` files are generated by the notebook and show animated results of the simulation for different starting probabilty densities.
